#Step 1: Launch an EC2 Ubuntu Instance
Log in to AWS Console

##Go to the AWS Management Console.
Navigate to EC2 under "Services."
Launch a New EC2 Instance

Click on Launch Instance.
Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

Select Ubuntu Server (latest LTS version recommended).
Choose an Instance Type

For free-tier, select t2.micro.
Configure Instance Details

Leave the default settings unless you have specific requirements.
Add Storage

Default is 8 GiB (increase if needed).
Configure Security Group

Select Create a new security group.
Add the following inbound rules:
SSH (Port 22) → Anywhere (IPv4) [0.0.0.0/0]
(Optional: If hosting a website, add HTTP (80) and HTTPS (443) rules.)
Create a Key Pair (for SSH access)

Click Create new key pair.
Choose RSA and give it a name (e.g., MyUbuntuKey).
Click Download Key Pair (this downloads a .pem file).
🚨 Important: Keep this file safe, as it's needed to access your instance.
Launch the Instance

Click Launch and wait for the instance to be ready.
Step 2: Convert .pem Key to .ppk for PuTTY
Since PuTTY does not support .pem files, you need to convert it to .ppk:

Download & Open PuTTYgen

Download PuTTY and open PuTTYgen.
Load the .pem File

Click Load, set file type to All Files, and select your .pem key.
Save the Private Key

Click Save private key (ignore the passphrase warning).
Save it as .ppk (e.g., MyUbuntuKey.ppk).
Step 3: Connect to the EC2 Instance using PuTTY
Find Your Public IP

Go to EC2 Dashboard → Instances → Select your instance.
Copy the Public IPv4 Address.
Open PuTTY

In Host Name (or IP Address), enter:
java
Copy
Edit
ubuntu@your-public-ip
(Replace your-public-ip with the actual public IPv4 address.)
Load the .ppk Key

In PuTTY, go to Connection → SSH → Auth.
Click Browse, select your .ppk file, and open.
Connect

Click Open.
Click Yes when prompted for a security alert.
Login to Your Ubuntu Instance

Default username for Ubuntu instances:
ubuntu

#Steps to connect Linux 
1.sudo apt-get install git 
2.git clone 'path of your repository'
3.sudo apt update
4.sudo apt install python3-venv
5.python3 -m venv linuxenvironment
6.source linuxenvironment/bin/activate
7.cd repositorydirectoryname
8.pip install -r requirements.txt
9.streamlit run filename.py



